hey folks today we're going to be
covering networking Essentials this is
part of our Core Concepts which is
basically material that we think you
need either a to put together a good
design or B because your interviewer
might ask you questions about in deep
Dives or in probes and we want to give
you all of the foundations for you to be
successful in your system design
interviews networking Essentials has
about four sections we're going to first
cover the basics we're going to cover
the OSI model and talk about how
networking Works fundamentally then
we're going to go into each of the
layers talking from IP all the way up to
websockets ssse and grpc so you can be
familiar with various protocols that are
going to be important we're going to
talk a little bit about load balancing
because the intersection between
networking and load balancing is really
important and finally we're going to
wrap things up with a bit of deep Dives
on regionalization timeouts retries item
potency cascading failures practical
things that you're going to need in your
interviews let's get going networking is
usually thought of as a layered cake
where at the top are application layer
protocols like HTTP and web sockets and
at the bottom are physical layer
elements like wires in a network when
we're talking in system design
interviews we're usually only concerned
with a few of these layers but it's
important that you understand these
layers and how they operate they're
basically like abstractions so recall
that when you're building an app you're
probably not moving moving voltages
around to write to a dis you're probably
using an open command and a right
command and that enables you to think
about the important pieces like what
your data looks like as opposed to the
mechanics of the underlying Hardware
networking Works in much the same way
these layers build upon one another and
provide features and functionalities
that you'll need the first layer that
will be concerned with in system design
interviews is the network layer this is
where protocols like IP and fiban live
the vast majority of applications
outside of AI Labs will use IP or
Internet Protocol and we're going to go
talk about that in just a moment at the
transport layer this is where you'll see
protocols like TCP and UDP they provide
some additional functionality on top of
Ip like guaranteed ordering or reliable
delivery things that you're going to
want to be able to rely on and so we'll
talk about those next and finally at the
very top of the stack is the application
layer this is where layer 7 protocols
like HTTP exist or websockets these are
going to be things that are useful to
you as a developer and also important as
you're navigating various trade-offs of
how your system actually functions and
then what capabilities it has this
layering becomes a little bit more clear
if we work through an example so when we
want to make an HTTP request we want to
make a web server request to a website
we're actually going to transmit a lot
of different information between client
and and server as an example when the
TCP connection is initially established
we're going to use what's called a
three-way handshake there's going to be
a synchronize an acknowledgement of that
synchronization an acknowledgement of
that acknowledgement and then and only
then is our connection established after
that we can go and submit requests over
that connection or that TCP stream and
then we're going to get responses back
from the client what you can see here is
that these layers are building on one
another the HTTP layer depends on the
TCP layer or the TCP connection being
established and the TCP layer assumes
that they can depend on using IP
addresses to Route packets through the
network so the central idea here is that
these layers help each other and they
also are oblivious to some of the
details of the protocols that live below
them there's two important things about
this for system design interviews the
first is that there is a lot of back and
forth and that means latency when we're
setting up and initializing connections
the second thing that's important is
that there is State here we have a
connection established and a connection
that's terminated and that connection is
not incredibly cheap for us to set up
there's actually a lot of latency in
back and forth and we'll need to be
considerate of how we manage that state
throughout the rest of our design get
back to this in a bit let's go through
each layer of the cake and talk about
the protocols that occupy it and also
what it does we're going to start with
the lowest layer the network layer at
layer three and at this layer is
Internet Protocol or IP the
responsibility for IP is basically to
give names that are usable to nodes on
the network and allow routing we have
two types of names ipv4 addresses which
are four bytes you can see this in this
notation and IPv6 addresses which are 16
bytes they're actually arranged in 2
byte pairs the main difference for these
is that we've run out of ipv4 addresses
and we haven't out of IPv6 you'll
typically use ipv4 externally because
it's going to be more compatible and
then IPv6 internally because it's more
modern IP addresses come in two forms
public addresses and private addresses
public addresses are known to the world
they're assigned by a central body and
routers are aware of them so as an
example this is the range of addresses
that Apple owns all addresses that start
with 18 this notation means the first
eight bits of the address are meaningful
that is the first bite or that 18 all of
the addresses that start with 18 belong
to Apple and so what that means for
routing infrastructure on the Internet
is if you see an IP address with 18 you
can send it over to the routers that
Apple owns with private IP addresses you
can assign your nodes any name you want
the only important thing here is that
you remember where they are and that
your routers are aware of them so an
example of a private IP address is 1921
16801 it's probably the address of your
home router this is actually a special
range this 192 168 you'll see 16 so the
first two bytes that's allocated for
local networks and the whole point is to
eliminate any overlap between private
addresses and public addresses what you
don't want to do is give your toaster an
IP address that also is used by Google
and then when you want to go and send a
packet over to Google it actually goes
to your toaster for system design
interviews you're going to see these
public and private addresses in two
places public addresses are usually used
for your API Gateway for load balancers
for externally facing components of your
design and the key thing here is that
people on the outside world need to be
able to send them information private IP
addresses are going to be used for
everything else all of your
microservices any other internal hosts
and you need to both allocate them and
be aware of them so if you're going to
load balance between IP addresses you've
got to keep track of which host exists
where they are and which ones you want
to use the next layer of our cake is
layer four or the transport layer with
IP addresses in hand I can send big
packets or like a block of binary data
to a host but I'm usually missing two
things one is context I often times care
about like what application it's both
destined for and came from this is
usually solved with ports also I care
about the ordering of packets and
whether or not they were delivered and
these functionalities aren't provided by
IP natively but they are provided by
some transport protocols there's really
three protocols that are in widespread
use today TCP UDP and quick quick is a
more modern substitute for TCP it's
increasingly being used for web traffic
and it has a lot higher performance but
it looks very similar in terms of
functionality so I'm going to ignore it
for a minute to focus primarily on TCP
and UDP TCP is the default if you're
talking about system design your
interviewer is generally going to assume
you're talking about TCP because AS
application develop velers you're
usually relying on TCP for most of your
Communications so let's talk about TCP
first and some of the guarantees that it
offers before we go into UDP and where
you might want to break out of that
default so TCP is going to give you some
additional features on top of Ip like
guaranteed delivery and ordering the way
that this works is when you initially
establish a TCP connection or stream
you're basically saying I've got a
sequence and you're going to be giving
packets a sequence number then as
packets go across the network if they
get out of order or they're lost both
the sender and the recipient will know
what happened in between they've got the
numbers to back it up so if you had
packets one and three you might be able
to assume that two is missing and you
could go back to the transmitting server
and say I lost two also if you got five
after you had just gotten three you're
going to wait a second for four before
you emit five to your application that's
a functionally how TCP works now TCP is
awesome and it's the default because
it's reliable the hardest part about
networking is that if the network fails
to transmit or things are lost in the
the transmission process it can be hard
to deal with failures and TCP mitigates
many of those failures but note that
while I can guarantee delivery in one
sense like I'll know whether a packet
was actually rece received by the other
host I can't really guarantee delivery
in an absolute sense at just the network
level this isn't going to tell me for
instance if the data was written to dis
it's not really relevant for things like
cap theorem but it is relevant from a
practical standpoint about giving you an
insight into what actually happened on
the other end of the network now while
all these guarantees that TCP offers are
amazing they have cost and their primary
cost is in throughput and in latency if
for instance a packet is lost in
transmission TCP needs to retransmit it
before it can continue and if your Two
Hosts are very far apart that
retransmission can take up a lot of time
there are going to be applications where
you don't need those guarantees and you
want higher performance that's where UDP
comes in you can think of UDP like a
machine gun it's basically spray and
prey as a sender you're going to write
your data you're going to wish it you
know a good voyage and you're going to
send it off across the ocean and hope it
makes it there and in most cases it will
and in some cases it won't now that kind
of seems like it sucks and it kind of
seems like wishful thinking but it
actually turns out to be really useful
in some applications as an example when
you were doing video conferencing you
don't want to if you drop a frame to go
back to the host and say hey give me
that frame again what you'll usually do
is just drop that frame out of the view
you might stabilize the audio a bit and
you'll keep going that's not to say that
you won't go back to the sender at any
point and send them a message to say hey
you're dropping the connection can you
lower the transmission rate but it is to
say that you don't care as much about
those individual packets so UDP is going
to be really useful for realtime
applications or for lossy applications
multiplayer games audio and video
conferencing sometimes live stream in
system design interviews you may be
forced to choose between TCP and UDP and
your default should definitely be TCP
the cases where you're going to want to
use UDP are those where latency is
Paramount and you can handle those
failure modes where a packet is missing
or you get things out of order if those
two things hold then moving to a UDP
oriented service can be really useful
now note that UDP isn't supported by
browsers natively so if you have any
browser applications you're going to
need to figure a TCP version to use
alongside whatever UDP applications like
a mobile app might be using your service
now that we've covered layer three and
layer 4 TCP UDP and IP we can graduate
ourselves to layer 7 the application
layer where we'll be spending the
majority of our time the first protocol
at the application layer is HTTP
hypertext transfer protocol and it is
the most popular protocol for a lot of
applications and it's not just websites
even RPC or remote procedure call
applications will use HTTP CU it's very
versatile and it's battle tested over
decades the way the HTTP works is simple
text formatted requests and responses a
request looks like this get slost SL1
I'm going to tell it which version of
HTTP and then I'm going to send it some
headers alongside my request this get is
actually called the method or an HTTP
verb and it tells me a little bit about
my intent am I modifying data am I
retrieving it am I updating it the
headers are a key value dictionary and
they can really contain almost anything
the HTTP standard has a bunch of headers
that are widely accepted like content
encoding or accept encoding but you're
also free to Define your own headers
that you can use at will in your
application the HTTP response is going
to include both the actual data that we
want to transmit but also a status code
which tells me was it successful or not
and some headers which might indicate
what format the data is in or the date
that it was retrieved one of the more
important ideas behind HTTP is called
content negotiation when I make a
request I might tell the web server that
I'm requesting it from what kind of
things I can receive I can accept C
compressed content or I can accept
certain encodings then in the response
the server is free to tell me what it
actually gave me I gave you compressed
content or you asked for compressed
content but I don't have it I'm going to
give you plain text content this makes
HTTP both backwards and forwards
compatible when new versions and new
functionality are rolled out new headers
are introduced and then servers and
clients are able to negotiate what they
want to use and what they don't want to
use the name hypertext transport
protocol might be a little bit
misleading because it kind of makes the
assumption that we're just retrieving
web pages but HTTP is much broader than
that and it can be used for building
apis as an example the most common way
to build apis on top of HTTP is using
what's called rest or representational
state transfer the way that rest works
is two pieces one we're going to use
those http methods or verbs to describe
what operations we're doing are we
reading data are we writing data are we
updating data and secondly we're going
to focus on resources and those
resources are going to have URLs associ
associated with them so as an example if
I want to read user ID 1 I'm going to
use the HTTP get verb I'm going to pass
in the URL SL
users1 and then when I make that Quest
it is going to return a Json result
which gives me all the details about
that user similarly if I want to update
a user I can use the put verb and I'll
make a put request to the same URL user1
and I'll pass in the body of my request
what update I'd like to make in this
case I'd like to replace that user with
username John Doe and email John do
example.com if I want to create a new
user in rest I'm going to is is a post I
don't know the ID yet so I'm going to
post to the the root of that resource SL
users and then I'm going to pass in the
body the data that I want associated
with that resource so I want that
resource to be created with Stefan May
and stefanello interview.com in rest I
can Nest these resources if I want to so
if a user has posts as an example then I
can retrieve a list of those posts by
sending a request to get SL users slid
slost basically I'm organizing my API
around URLs and around verbs now this
organization can be a little
counterintuitive to some developers
because they're used to thinking in
terms of function calls so it wouldn't
be appropriate for a rest API for
instance for me to have slash update
user as the URL that wouldn't really
make sense in rest and the reason it
wouldn't make sense is because update
user isn't a resource it's an action
instead what I would do is I would make
this put call there are operations that
you might think of as mutations or
operations that need to be performed and
typically in rest what you'll do is make
those an update so for instance if I
wanted to start a game that already
existed I would go and make a patch call
that would update the status of the game
to running from stopped or from pending
user start and what that's doing is it's
basically changing my thinking from
making operations to making updates to
resources rest is very popular and it is
in some sense the default that we would
suggest for how you build apis in system
design there is some overhead and
there's certainly some thinking that
you're going to have to do in order to
make this work but it has wide
generality everybody knows rest and is
able to use it and it's reasonably
performant for most applications now
just like there were situations where we
might want to move from the default of
TCP to UDP for special applications
there are certainly instances where we
might actually want to use a different
protocol for our application layer one
example of this is graph ql in graphql
we're going to acknowledge some of the
problems that exist with ful apis and
then provide an alternative for them
let's pretend that we are designing a
mobile app and we've got this view that
shows some profile information some
status information and a list of groups
that this user is associated with
whenever I open this page in a restful
context I need to make five or more
requests to the server this is a bit of
a pain first of all it means that my
page or my screen is only going to be
fully loaded as soon as all of these
return and secondly all of the overhead
of establishing an HTTP request and
serializing the information happens in
each of these requests this would be an
example of something that we would call
under fetching where basically I'm not
getting enough information in the
response and I've got to go and make
other requests similarly I might try to
solve this problem by basically creating
a kitchen sink endpoint so this wouldn't
be a valid restful endpoint but let's
pretend I have a slash everything you
might need endpoint and it's going to
return my entire database of information
I've solved the problem of under
fetching now I only need to make one
request but I've created this new
problem in that this request is going to
be really expensive to return and it's
going to take a long time there's going
to be a bunch of latency and so graphql
is really trying to solve this problem
that very frequently happens when we're
developing apps or web pages where our
requirements are constantly changing we
might want to add a widget here or
change Fields here and we don't
necessarily want to have to change our
apis on the back end every time that
happens it's mostly a front-end concern
so what can we do the way that graphql
works is it basically provides a way for
the front end to describe the shape of
data that it needs to retrieve and then
the back end is then able to figure out
where to get that data so that it can
return it in the way the front end needs
this might be a little small on your
screen but this is a graphql query that
says get users with profiles and groups
we have the users ID and username
underneath their profile we have their
Avatar and their full name and then
we're also in each of their groups we're
going to have a name description
category and so our graphql response is
going to return all of this data and
nothing more what graphql has done is
instead of telling me about resources
I'm telling it exactly the view I want
to materialize on the front end and then
the back end is free to figure out what
details it needs in order to make this
happen now graphql in practice can be
very useful and it's really useful in
those situations where a your front end
is changing all the time you're doing
experiments the requirements aren't firm
or B when you've got lots of different
teams maybe your front end and backend
team aren't connected maybe your
front-end team needs to connect to
multiple backend teams and they don't
have the same API that they're using to
expose their data but both those
situations actually don't happen as
often in system design interviews in a
lot of cases in system design interviews
you're the sole author of your system
and the requirements are going to be
fixed at the start of the interview so
graphql is really useful in system
design interviews in those case where
either a you're interviewer is not
giving you all the requirements or
somehow implying that they're going to
be changing quickly or B you want to be
able to design a system that
specifically can support these arbitrary
query patterns sometimes we'll see
graphql use for instance as the endpoint
for Newsfeed style applications where
it's not always obvious all of the
different views that the client may need
to request upfront and we want to
provide some flexibility for the front
end and back end to negotiate those two
pieces another example of a protocol
where we might want to move away from
rest would be grpc or Google RPC the way
grpc works it's built on top of Proto
Buffs if you're not familiar with Proto
Buffs they're pretty simple they provide
a schema it looks like a struct if
you've written C or
C++ and that that schema provides a way
to serialize objects into very efficient
binary
representations so this Json blob is 40
bytes and it contains John Doe and his
ID but in a protuff representation it's
only 15 bytes which is a massive savings
if my server is handling gigabytes of
data then I only have to use half of
them grpc Builds on top of protuff to
add this notion of services I'm going to
define a message that is the request and
the response in my service I give an RPC
endpoint get user it takes in my request
and then it returns my response in some
cases this is the type for my API this
will compile into stubs that can be used
for a wide variety of languages from
java and C++ to node Ruby even some
esoteric languages what grpc does is it
makes the serialization and
deserialization of my inputs much more
efficient where with rest I was using
Json blobs which actually need to be
parsed with grpc I don't have a lot of
that overhead and that means that grpc
Services can be up to 10 times as
efficient 10 times as fast or 10 times
as much throughput as their rest
equivalents grpc also adds some
additional features that are useful for
operating microservices at scale like
client side load balancing and streaming
and some rudimentary authentication so
the idea behind grpc is pretty sound
it's basically how Google builds
Services internally the main problem
with grpc is twofold one mostly external
clients don't support grpc web browsers
don't support grpc natively and secondly
operating with binaries in between
Services is really efficient and very
effective for the servers but it makes
it harder for Dev and other teams to be
able to debug the information that is
being passed over the wire now of course
there are solutions for this and I would
love for grpc to be used more widely but
the reality is it's not used that often
so what that means in practice for
system design interviews is that grpc is
in some sense mostly useful for internal
Services I might have a client who
connects to a web server an a an API
server over HTTP or rep
and then when I have some high
performance bottlenecks on the back end
I can have my own controlled host
communicate over grpc this is kind of
The Best of Both Worlds where I get high
performance interconnects for all of
these hosts but I get a language and a
way of communicating with my clients
that's widely accepted and easily
debugged externally in general for
interviews I wouldn't suggest bringing
up GR PC unless you were tightly
optimizing for performance but in those
cases having a setup like this where
you've got a hybrid of rest and HTTP and
grpc internally can be the Best of Both
Worlds so far we've mostly been talking
about requests and responses which is
going to be the vast majority of
applications that you're going to build
but there are a lot of applications
where you want to be able to push data
to your user as it's happening examples
of this would be like stock ticker
updates or maybe notifications that you
want to send to your users and in those
cases you can just go pull the API to
make repeated requests but that means
that your information is going to be
delayed by up to your polling frequency
and there is some overhead of repeatedly
opening and closing connections or
making those requests so enter server
sent events or ssse SSE is an extension
on HTTP so it's basically an HTTP
request but with one notable difference
with a typical HTTP request our response
is going to be consumed almost wholly
that's not exactly true because there's
a lot of websites and web browsers which
will process the request as it comes in
but in most cases for apis you can think
that I'm not really going to be able to
process the response until I get
everything so if I was sending a list of
events where they happen over the course
of 10 I think this is 10 seconds I'm not
going to be able to process those events
until all of them complete and then get
sent in this response with ssse what I'm
going to do is include additional
headers in the response like chunked
encoding and then in the response I'm
going to use new lines to designate how
each of the events are happening and so
what will happen is when my first event
comes I'm going to pass it over the wire
as part of the first line of that hdtp
response because of the headers all of
the proxies and other things that are
handing that request are going to send
that response right onto my clients and
my clients are going to immediately
start to parse the response what that
means is that I basically have a way to
unidirectionally push notifications from
server to client and the nice part about
SSC is I can use the existing HTTP
Machinery I don't need new infra in
order to build out on top of ss now the
downside of ss is that those connections
are going to be severed frequently HTTP
requests are expected to return in
somewhere on the order of 30 seconds to
1 minute and so most routers and proxies
are going to time out or disconnect
requests that exist for longer than that
what SS will do in those cases is
automatically retry most of the clients
like Event Source will open up a new
ssse connection and what they'll do is
they'll pass the ID of the last event
that it received just in case one event
happened between the time that it was
disconnected and the time that you
reconnected but it's a bit of a cluee
you're basically existing on this
connection that is constantly pushing
responses that is periodically severed
and then re-enabled that said just
because it's clui doesn't mean it
doesn't work and many applications can
use SSC it's a great option if if you
need to get updates to a UI for a short
period of time so as an example if
you're making a request or you're buying
a product and you want to know the
status that might evolve over the next
15 seconds it's also really useful for
AI applications where you might want to
stream tokens or responses back to the
user because they take a while it might
take 30 seconds for your full response
to actually be built out so server Cent
events built on top of HTTP and allow
you to have longer running requests that
the server can push events down to the
client ssse can be super powerful for
those push notifications but in some
instances we actually need bidirectional
communication our clients need to be
pushing to the server in as much as the
server needs to be pushing into the
client and we care a lot about latency
in those cases where we have high
frequency updates and bidirectional
communication that's where we're going
to bring in websockets now I want to
offer a caveat before I get into
websockets that I oftentimes see
candidates use these inappropriately
websockets are really powerful but they
also require a lot of infra and it may
be more appropriate to think about a
polling based solution or an S based
solution before you launch into a Full
Tilt websocket solution especially if
the functionality that you're designing
is pretty narrow so like getting an
update on a bid for just a general
browser of the page that probably
doesn't mean you want to open millions
of websocket connections but where you
need websockets they are going to be
very powerful and the way that
websockets work is basically by
simulating a TCP connection but by
making it accessible for browsers and
other clients so a websocket is
basically just a way for you to exchange
binary blobs that come in on the same
order and are in some sense guaranteed
to to be delivered reliably when you
design websockets in a system design
interview you're typically going to talk
about an API in terms of messages that
you're sending because these aren't
request and response you don't typically
have that function style set up where
you can say here's the input and here's
the output instead you'll say hey I'm
going to receive a ticker update
notification to my client and then on my
client I might send a subscribe or an
unsubscribe now it doesn't eliminate the
possibility that you have a message that
you get received of a subscription
accepted as example but you shouldn't
design websockets with this intention of
having a lot of request and response
style of operations just because that's
really not how websockets are designed
if you want that request response
functionality you're better off using
HTTP websockets in general are going to
involve a lot of State for your
application if you've got a connection a
websocket connection that means that
connection needs to be active for as
long as the lifetime of that websocket
connection so if I have a websocket
connection to a server and that user is
going to be around for an hour I need a
way of of keeping that server alive for
as long as that connection needs to be
alive this can really play havoc on
applications where you want to do
deployments or you might have failures
so in a typical websocket setup you want
to have some sort of fallback so you can
reestablish connections or move them
between servers typically in system
design you want to minimize statefulness
but websockets are inherently stateful
so the way that you're going to handle
them in an interview setting is usually
by having something on the periphery or
edge of your design that handles the web
sockets and exposes methods that
internal Services can call you might
call it a message broker or a
notification service but essentially
you'll have all of your users connect
via websockets to that service and then
that service will make requests to your
internal services and those internal
service will then send messages back via
websockets we've got a lot more detail
on this pattern in our realtime updates
guide on the Hello interview website as
part of the the premium offering if
you're interested in getting into more
detail the final protocol that we're
going to talk about is web RTC and this
is by far the most unique and the most
Niche protocol of the group web RTC
unlike all the other protoc calls runs
over UDP as opposed to TCP and it's
really used in those places where you
either have collaborative editors or you
have audio and video connections between
clients web RTC is unique because it's a
peer-to-peer
connection that web RTC is a way for
clients to connect with one another
which makes sense if you think about
video conferencing or collaborative
editors the way that it works is pretty
complicated but let me give you just a
flyby of the typical setup process and
then I'll defer to some reading that you
can have in the write up of this guide
that'll give you more detail if you want
it so what will happen is our clients
will first connect to what's called a
signaling server it's basically a
centralized server that maintains
knowledge about all of the clients who
are connected to one another and is able
to exchange information the signaling
Server doesn't handle the bulk of the
information it's not handling video
feeds it can handle a lot of clients
even though the aggregate transmission
over web RTC between clients might be
pretty high after the client connects to
the signaling server it's going to learn
about its peers and basically decide
which ones it wants to connect to the
next thing that it's going to do is
connect to what's called a stun server
the problem is most clients don't accept
inbound connections this would usually
be a security problem if you can imagine
if you connected your laptop and
suddenly hackers could go and and
connect to your your host you you might
have issues as vulnerabilities are
uncovered so most clients aren't exposed
cl to the internet they're clients
they're not servers but in this case if
we want these clients to connect to one
another we need to create a way for them
to do that and this is typically done
through a process called Gat hole
punching I definitely won't be able to
get into detail about it but this stun
server helps us to both find an address
that we can use so that our peer can
connect to us and then also facilitate
that whole punching after we've got an
address and we're ready to go we can
share the information between our peers
so that they can connect to one another
and then once they've connected with one
another they can send information over
that UDP connection to each other this
would be where you would do your video
conferencing in the rare case that
they're not able to establish a
peer-to-peer connection they can use yet
another centralized server they call it
a turn server that basically would allow
clients to bounce requests to one
another which is obviously the least
efficient and least desirable outcome
web RTC sounds pretty seductive because
peer-to-peer seems like it could be
really powerful and it it can for the
right application but a lot of
candidates in system design interviews
use it unnecessarily so I would
generally avoid it except if you're
doing audio and video calling in which
case it might be worth bringing up the
other use case that's acceptable is
collaborative editors as an example you
might use a peer-to-peer connection to
exchange updates on a shared document
and in that case you would probably use
what are called conflict F free
replicated data structures or crdts
conflict free replicated data types in
order to share the document state in a
way that is amendable to peer-to-peer
connection if that sounds confusing you
should totally ignore it because it is
while an awesome design and one that you
may be able to read up on also probably
not necessary for 95 plus% of interviews
so for web RTC think about it as when
you need to facilitate audio and video
calling this wraps up the primary
protocols that you're going to see in
system design interviews and I hope you
see that there is a wide variety of
applications that you can support
streaming applications through
websockets and ssse high performance
backends through grpc flexible front
ends through graphql and then the Jack
of all trades restful apis in system
design interviews you're usually going
to be scaling often times the questions
are how can you design a system that
works with lots of users or lots of data
and that can go in one of two directions
either vertical scaling where we're
going to use bigger hosts and more
Hardware more memory more CPU or
horizontal scaling where we're going to
duplicate our servers and find some way
of balancing our requests and our data
between them vertical scaling is by far
my preference and I think a lot of
people are ignorant of how effective
Modern Hardware can be they're kind of
stuck in this world of the early 2010s
where Google needed to use commodity
Hardware in order to get anything done
in a lot of cases you can find servers
with terabytes of memory and you should
use them because I think they'll be
effective but in interviews interviewers
are typically expecting that you're
going to require some form of horizontal
scaling and so it's worth us talking
about some of those implications
the most important implication of
horizontal scaling is you introduce this
problem of load balancing where I've got
a client where previously I could
connect to a single host now I need to
connect to multiple servers and load
balancing serves two purposes one is it
spreads the load so that way you know I
can actually handle way more traffic
than a single server could handle and
the second is it facilitates high
availability now if server one goes down
theoretically my client can connect to
server 2 and server 3 when a lot of
people hear load balancing they think
load balancer like a dedicated device
that's going to spread load but that's
not the only way to do load balancing
there's theoretically two ways that we
can do this one is we can do client side
load balancing and the other is that we
can use a dedicated Appliance with
client side load balancing what we're
going to do is have the client be aware
of all the servers that they can connect
to they will query some sort of registry
that will tell them about the the
existence of all of the servers another
path is for them to actually query the
servers themselves so they might have a
reference to one server and they can ask
that server about other servers that's
how reddis cluster works for example and
the reason that client side load
balancing can be really effective is
because it doesn't introduce an
additional hop of latency if I have
client side load balancing then I can
directly send my requests to the server
that's going to handle it I don't have
anything in the middle on the other hand
client side load balancing requires that
the clients get updates about the
servers that exist and I don't get to
employ sophisticated load balancing
techniques I can't expect that my
clients know for instance about the
state of servers all the time so you're
going to use client client side load
balancing in scenarios where either a
you don't have many clients which is
often times the case on internal
Facebook ing microservices or if you
have lots of clients that you can
tolerate update delays an example of the
latter is DNS DNS is when we make a
request to go and resolve a name like
hello interview.com to the IP addresses
of the servers we're going to get a list
that list will be randomized or shuffled
and we are going to first hit the first
server on that list and then if they
don't respond we'll hit the second
server on that list and and so on and
what this is going to allow the
aggregate consumers of DNS to do is
handle the load balancing by themselves
but the tolerate update delays is really
important for DNS because DNS is heavily
cached if I make an update to that IP
list it might take anywhere between 5
minutes and a day for all DNS servers to
receive that update and them to begin
serving it to their clients so it's not
a great solution if I need to be able to
react rapidly either to scaling events
or other issues that might I might
encounter so for system design
interviews client side load balancing
can be very powerful and it's definitely
a tool for Your Arsenal use it for
internal facing microservices that's a
great place for it grpc supports it
natively which is an awesome feature
that you can use but generally speaking
favor a dedicated load balancer in those
cases where you need to be able to work
with extra clients that need to get
updates relatively quickly in those
cases where I need to use a dedicated
load balancer I'm going to insert an
appliance between my clients and the
servers that I want to load balance this
Appliance can be either Hardware or
software so like F1 networks has load
balancers that scale up to hundreds of
millions of transactions per second
whereas software load balancers like ha
proxy or Apache May scale to a million
transactions per second you also
obviously have Cloud offerings like
aws's application load balancer or
elastic load balancer you have lots of
options what will happen is when servers
are initially spun up they'll announce
themselves to the load balancer saying
hey I'd like to receive traffic the load
balancer will then make health check
requests trying to determine whether the
server can respond to the requests that
it's trying to load balance these health
checks can either be very shallow so
like can you take a connection a t TP
connection to very deep like can I look
at the response from this HTTP request
and see the status code these are all
usually configurable parameters that you
have on the load balancer itself but the
important thing is once your server has
returned healthy sufficient number of
times the load balancer will start
routing traffic to it and then once it's
unhealthy or stops responding then the
load balancer will stop sending it
traffic now the way that load balancers
balance that load is also configurable
there's a lot of different algorithms
that are in use the most common ones for
stateless services like HTTP servers or
most applications where you're using
simple request and response is to either
round robin or randomly allocate the
requests and the nice thing about this
is if we assume that the requests
themselves are going to take a random
amount of time then we'll get
approximately even load across my
servers and my load balancer doesn't
have to do a whole lot of work work the
other way that we can allocate requests
is by using least connections so we can
look at all the servers and find out how
many connections I already have open
between the load balancer and that
server and then only allocate new
connections to the server that has the
least connections this can be kind of
nice in those scenarios where I have a
new server that I've introduced I'm
scaling up and I want to make sure that
new connections are going to that server
until it's approximately even with the
rest if I was randomly allocating it
would take a longer time for that new
server to kind of get up to the same
speed especially if my requests take
long another place where least
connections can be really useful is if I
have long running or stateful
connections so like websocket
connections websockets might last for an
hour and in those cases I can have
really uneven load across my servers
because some of those requests might
take just a few minutes and some of them
might take a very long time and so lease
connections is going to provide some
guarantee of about how evenly I'll
allocate amongst them another
consideration that I have when I'm
choosing load balancers is at what level
they're operating out so the two
examples are a layer four load balancer
which operates at like the TCP level or
a layer 7even load balancer which
happens at the HTTP level let's talk
about what each of them looks like with
the idea that in some cases your
interviewer might want to know which
load balancer you've chosen the way a
layer 4 load Bal balancer works is it
initiates a layer 4 connection for every
inbound connection that it receives so
when my client is trying to connect to
my service it's going to create a TCP
connection to the load balancer and that
load balancer is going to create a
parallel TCB connection to the server
for a layer 4 load balancer I can kind
of pretend like this load balancer does
not exist it's as if the client has a
connection directly with the server and
that connection that I have to the load
balancer is just a proxy to that
connection with a client the nice thing
about layer four load balancers is they
really high performance the the layer 4
load balancer doesn't need to do a lot
of thinking it doesn't need to look at
packets all it needs to do is when it
receives a new connection to create a
new connection with the server and then
any any packets that it receives on the
inbound connection it pushes to the
origin or basically the servers that it
is load balancing an alternative to a
layer 4 load balancer is a layer 7even
load balancer Amazon's application load
balancer would be an example of this and
what this load balancer is going to do
is instead of only accepting TCP
connections it's actually going to
accept say HTTP requests it's going to
accept requests at that last layer at
layer seven and then what it's going to
do is it's going to choose an arbitrary
server based on its load balancing
algorithm that it will send that request
to so for the server it's actually not
as straightforward whether the
connection that it has with the load
balancer is the same one that it has
with the client the layer 7 load
balancer might have only a few
connections to the servers and many
connections to clients now layer 7even
load balancers can be a little bit more
expensive because they need to basically
be able to handle the application layer
responses so they need to be able to
handle a full HTTP request but what it
means is that if I had a single TCP
connection and multiple HTTP requests
that happened over it I can fan out
those requests to all of the servers I
don't have to necessarily send them all
to one server so it can be very
effective layer 7 load balancers aren't
going to be appropriate in those cases
where I have a connection oriented
protocol while some layer 7 load
balancers will for instance Port web
sockets for the most part layer 7even
load balancers aren't appropriate in
those cases we're actually going to want
to use a layer four load balancer but in
those cases where we can accept a bit of
a performance hit a layer 7even load
balancer is going to provide a lot of
functionality routing options the
ability to terminate https whatever we
want to do we can probably do it with a
layer 7 load balancer so it's going to
be the default and the thing that we
would recommend in most instances the
exception in system design interviews is
if you're using websockets or any
stateful connections you probably want
to use a layer 4 load balancer and your
interviewer may ask you questions about
how that is set up we are almost there
we've covered our networking 101 gotten
through all of the major protocols and
talked about load balancing for the last
part of this video we're going to do
some deep dives into questions that
you're likely to field in the interview
and talk a little bit about the
networking ramifications of them so that
you're prepared for them first let's
talk about
regionalization typically in a system
design interview you're going to be
asked to design a system that works
across the entire globe and when we talk
about networking across the globe we
have to deal with the laws of physics if
I wanted to make a connection between
London and New York the speed of light
can only travel so fast in a fiber optic
cable on either side of the Atlantic so
from a practical perspective I'm going
to have about 80 milliseconds of latency
no matter what I'm doing that can be a
problem if I need to make lots of
requests back and forth across the
Atlantic so I need to figure out what
I'm going to do about that another
problem that we typically have is in
global scale systems we have global
scale traffic and that can often times
be a challenge for instance you're asked
to design a service like Uber which
operates in many locations in a lot of
cases we can simplify these problems by
recognizing where there are some neat
partitions in the problem as an example
with Uber what I can do is recognize
that writers are typically only
requesting drivers in cities that
they're currently in I'm not going to be
requesting a london-based driver from
Seattle as an example and that really
simplifies the problem what it means is
that I can take my system design and do
replicate it in the relevant cities that
I'm going to be conducting business
those cities can operate at a much
smaller scale and I'm going to get all
of the benefit of a regional Network all
of my writers are going to get near
instantaneous responses because my
system is nice and close now the reality
is having a data center in every city
that I'm operating is probably
impractical so what companies are
typically going to do is they're going
to have data centers that are close by
that are in regions that are associated
with those cities so I'll back together
all of the East Coast cities and all the
West Coast cities there's a couple
things to keep in mind as you're
regionalizing Services one is that we
want to keep the core of your data and
processing as close together as possible
it's called collocating your data and
the reason for that is while a one
request might come in from your user
let's say from London all the way to New
York I'm probably going to make many
requests back and forth between my web
server and my database inorder in order
to figure out what the response is
before I go back across the network it
would be a really silly idea if for
instance I put my web server in London
so that way that hop was nice and short
and then I had a long hop back and forth
to the database before I could answer
question from my user another thing that
we want to do is we want to get our
services as close to our users as
possible now I can move my web server
and my database to London but I I'm
going to run into a few problems first
of all I can't always depend on moving
my data around the world I might be able
to do this in the Uber case but in the
Reddit case I have users in China who
are accessing actually can China access
Reddit I'm not sure I have users in
Japan who are accessing posts from
people create that are created by people
in in the UK who are interacted and
commented on by people in the US I in
some sense need my data to be everywhere
so you've got a couple options here one
is you can have that data be local to
where it's most likely to be used even
though people in the UK are going to
access data in the US maybe they aren't
accessing it as frequently because of
the time zone differences in which case
I can partition my data globally another
thing I can do is I can replicate my
data I can have it to where when I write
to the database I store it locally but
I'm going to make sure that that that
gets replicated to other regions so that
they can read it quickly this inherently
introduces a lag it means that there's
going to be some time between when a
post is created in the US and when it's
available in Europe but that might be
okay for my purposes the last thing that
I can do is employ what's called a
Content delivery Network or a CDN and
the idea behind a CDN is pretty clever
you can think of cdns like a cache so
what we're going to do is we're going to
dot the globe uh in various cities and
most CDM providers have hundreds of
locations they call them Edge locations
and those are going to be servers that
users are going to connect to kind of
like gateways so when I want to make a
web request I'm going to find the edge
node that's closest to me and I'm going
to make a request to it the magic of a
CDN is they can serve a lot of the
requests immediately so if as a cash
someone has recently requested the front
page of Reddit and it's already sitting
on my CDN then I can return that to the
user immediately I don't have to do
anything which saves me any additional
latency that I might have going over to
the database or the web servers or
wherever that data is located quite
convenient the other thing that that
cache does is it reduces the load on the
back end because it's a cach now of
course not all data can be cached and in
those cases what will happen is that EDG
node will make a request to the server
that can actually service the request
that's called the origin server and in
that case the CDN is mostly acting as a
proxy it's just an intermediary between
you and the backend servers but
regardless the key Concepts here for
regionalization stand what we want to do
is we want to try to partition our data
and keep it as close to our users as
possible and we also want to make sure
our processing and our data all happen
in approximately the same location the
next practical area that you're very
likely to see in your interview is how
to handle failures or faults a lot of
times people think about what happens
when the server goes down but they don't
think about what happens when the
network goes down or there's a partition
in the network there's a lot of advanced
topics here especially dealing with
split brain in databases and how to
handle Network partitions but let's talk
about the basics first first when
clients are connecting to a server we
want to make sure that they eventually
time out what would be the worst
possible scenario is for me to make make
a request to a server get some
acknowledgement that it's in progress
and then never hear back from that
server again that client will be waiting
forever so we want to always put some
sort of sensible Timeout on the request
to make sure that we eventually give up
and send an air message to our users the
worst case scenario is I set my timeout
to something short like 3 seconds so I
can get my air messages to users fast
and the server takes 4 seconds to
respond in those cases no matter how
much I try I'm going to fail and so we
need to make sure that our timeouts are
long enough that our servers can respond
but also not so so long that it doesn't
really serve its purpose now when
there's a timeout or when there's some
sort of failure typically what we're
going to do for robustness is we're
going to retry and this is kind of a
tried and true way to handle failure in
in systems and the idea is really simple
I make a request and it fails I'm going
to try again 5 seconds later a naive
approach would be every 5 seconds I go
and make a retry and it's naive because
a the server probably not changed and B
It suffers from this bunching Behavior
so if for instance I have a service that
can only handle two transactions per
second but I've got three clients who
are all trying to make a request at the
same time I might have them fail so all
both my red green and blue client
simultaneously make a request they all
fail they all have a policy to retry
again in 5 seconds and in 5 seconds they
retry again and they fail again and then
they again in 5 seconds so we're going
to use two tricks in order to fix this
the first is we're going to employ
what's called back off often times
exponential back off what this means is
that the time between our retries is
going to increase and so maybe the first
time we wait 2 seconds and the next time
we wait 4 seconds 8 seconds and maybe we
give up then this kind of has a
two-sided purpose our first retry should
probably happen pretty quickly what we
don't want to have happen is for our
users to wait for a long time for
something that was transient maybe a
solar flare hit a disc somewhere but
once we get two failures in a row it's
pretty likely something substantial is
actually wrong and it's going to take
some time to recover so back off
basically gives us a way of spreading
out that load so that the server is not
getting or it's getting in this case
half as many requests in the same period
of time as it was previously now that's
nice and we're spreading out that load
and potentially giving the server a
chance to recover but what we aren't
doing is handling the synchronization
problem basically every request that we
make is also happening alongside green
and blue and so every single time we're
still tripping over that two request per
second limit what we're going to do here
is we're going to add something called
Jitter or Randomness for our red client
we're going to delay a little bit so
instead of 2 seconds maybe we do 2.5 and
for my green client maybe I do 1.9 my
blue client quite a bit longer and what
that's going to do is ensure that the
synchronization doesn't happen these are
all spread out over more time and
because they're delayed a random amount
of time successive retries are also
spread out and what we see is that this
continues to distribute across the
timeline what this is going to do is
kill that synchronization it's going to
distribute the load and theoretically
give the server a chance to get its
bearings so we can actually have a
successful request now that sounds good
and generally speaking in interviews the
gold standard for you to refer to when
you have connections between servers is
you want to have timeouts and retries
with exponential back off with Jitter
that's kind of what you could get away
with in in most sessions the last Deep
dive that I want to talk about are
cascading failures these are typically
seen more in senior and staff level
interviews in part because senior and
staff level candidates have probably
seen them before and have been burned by
them if you've ever been up at 3:00 a.m.
and an on call with a service that just
won't come up for a variety of reasons
you're probably very sensitive to
cascading failures and some of the
implications they have on your sleep and
your life and you're going to want to
make sure that people you bring into
your company also have some of that
experience so that they don't make
similar mistakes the idea with cascading
failures is some times problems in one
part of the system can create problems
in another part of the system so let's
pretend that we've got a service here
where server a makes request to server B
who queries the database everything is
going fine for a while then one day our
admin or Ops guy decides we need to back
up the database so he triggers a
database snapshot now suddenly our
database is operating at 50% of its
normal efficiency because our second
server wants to make sure that it's
robust against failures in the network
they put timeouts on the request to the
database and suddenly because the
database is returning 50% slower it is
failing those requests like a good
service it's retrying those requests but
those retries are also failing so the
server will try those requests three
times over progressively longer and
ultimately give up and return a failure
server a is doing the same thing it
makes a request to server B some of
those requests are timing out for those
requests that fail it's doing it again
so what we're going to see here is
because of the snapshot that degrades
our database our first server is going
to start to fail and our second server
is going to punish it for suffering
under the underperformance of the
database so server B is going to go down
and what happens next if we think the
problem was with server B we're going to
just try to start it up again but when
we start it up again we're going to see
the same problem the database is
unresponsive and server a is still
hitting it with as much traffic as it
can so what we need here is for Server a
to give server b a break so that way
server B can give the database a break
which hopefully someone notices that the
snapshot is happening the way to deal
with this is typically to implement
what's called a a circuit breaker and
the way that a circuit breaker works is
kind of like the circuit breakers that
you might have in your house when the
electricity going through your wires
exceeds a certain current the circuit
breaker flips off and it requires human
intervention a typical circuit breaker
in software is going to trip when a
failure exceeds a certain level and then
it will periodically reset itself and so
what will happen is server a will set
server B is obviously not handling many
if any of my
requests I'm going to temporarily pause
I'm going to fail all of my requests I
can't answer without server B and give
it a chance to recover before I Try
Again from an operational perspective
this gives me a chance to notice that
server B is slow it's not answering
those requests quickly because of the
database and then I can go and fix the
database problem then when the database
problem is fixed server B starts
responding in a reasonable amount of
time the circuit breaker automatically
resets and server a comes back online
circuit breakers build robust systems by
basically failing and failing in a in an
obvious way you'll obviously want alarms
on these circuit breakers so you know
when they trip but you'll know that
something is egregiously wrong and
you'll also know that you can probably
handle this Downstream if this is
tripping it means server B is is not
living up to expectations and you don't
have to worry about server a punishing
you while you try to bring it back up
and fix the problem okay folks we
covered a lot of ground and I want to
summarize before we end the video so we
started with networking 101 talking
about the OSI model and the layered
abstractions that are networking
protocols we started with layer three
which is our Internet Protocol or IP we
talked about public private addresses
where public addresses are for the
services that are internet facing and
private addresses are what you're going
to use internally for your microservices
then we moved on to layer four where we
have TCP UDP and quick TCP is the
default and it's a good recommendation
for what you're going to use but you may
run into problems where UDP is more
appropriate namely those situations
where you can tolerate some loss and you
need very high performance and low
latency on top of layer 4 and
predominantly on top of TCP are layer 7
protocols and we touched on a lot we
touched on HTTP which is the back bone
for a lot of the API protocols rest
which is our default and our suggestion
for what you use in a system design
interview in most cases grpc and graphql
are useful in narrower circumstances
where you are very concerned with
performance or you need a lot of
flexibility in the case of graphql then
we talked about about ssse being how
servers can send messages down to
clients websockets that enable
highfrequency bir directional
communication and web RTC the
peer-to-peer protocol predominantly used
for audio video calling but also can be
used in narrower circumstances for
collaborative editors we then moved on
to load balancing as the discussion we
talked briefly about horizontal and
vertical scaling and we talked about
types of load balancing strategies
clients side load balancing is typically
for internal
microservices and offers really great
performance when you've got a limited
number of clients when you need to go
externally to a larger number of clients
you've got your dedicated load balancers
which can be software or hardware and
typically you'll choose between a layer
7even load balancer or a layer 4 load
balancer where layer 4 is most
appropriate in those circumstances where
you need really high performance or you
have connections as in the case for
website Pockets finally we went through
a bunch of deep Dives that you might
encounter in your system design
interview we talked about solutions for
regionalization including cdns we talked
about timeouts and retries and the gold
standard here is retries with
exponential back off and Jitter and
finally we talked about cascading
failures and how circuit breakers can
enable you both to respond when those
failures are happening but also
self-heal and recover quickly these form
the basis of most of what you need to
know from a networking perspective to be
effective in a system design interview
there are obviously deep Dives that we
can go into for specific problems but we
find that this will get you 90% of the
way there for most of the interviews
that you have and I hope this has been a
useful overview of this core concept if
you've got questions leave them in the
comments we always love to hear your
your feedback and then if you want to
read more get into more detail you can
find for free this deep dive on our
website I'll link it in the descript
destion as well as other supplemental
material that we have as part of hello
interview really thank you for watching
all the best